bud-09: blob report. (#56)
hzrd149/blossom: buds/09.md

# BUD-09

## Blob Report

`draft` `optional`

This bud defines a new endpoint for clients and users to report blobs to servers.

### PUT /report - reporting a media

> The requests body MUST be a signed [NIP-56](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/56.md) report event with `x` tags containing that hashes of the blobs being reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request body MUST be a signed [NIP-56](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/56.md) report event with one or more `x` tags containing the hashes of the blobs being reported.
```

Example:

```jsonc
{
  "kind": 1984,
  "tags": [
    ["x", "<blob-sha256>", "<type-based-on-nip-56>"],
  ],
  "content": "<human readable report details>",
  // other fields...
}
```

> A report request may contain multiple `x` tags or contain some `p` or `e` tags which is not related to blossom server but is SHOULD be considered as a valid request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: is this line removed? why?

Reviewer: Not necessary

Reviewer: You should only document things that need to be enforced, not things that shouldnt be enforced

Author: i think implementors need to be aware of these cases. they may implement their code in a way that it rejects multiple `x` tags which makes reporting multiple data impossible. or don't expect `e` or `p` tag which makes the spec diable to report the owner of media or event to be used for relays.

@hzrd149 
@pablof7z 

what do you guys think?

Author: > I think we could remove this line and add an additional x tag to the example to make it clear a report can have multiple tags

this should work and its the same for me.

> I don't think its nessisary to mention the e or p tags in a report event

i did this to make the report useful for relays as well.

Author: good idea.

> Server MUST response to report request with a successful code or a code in 4xx/5xx range if there was any error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server MUST respond to a report request with a success code or a code in 4xx/5xx range if there was any error.
```

# BUD-09

## Blob Report

`draft` `optional`

This bud defines a new endpoint for clients and users to report blobs to servers.

> ### PUT /report - reporting a media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PUT /report - reporting content
```

Author: i prefer blob here.
